## Journal Entry #1: Getting Started with Domain-Driven Design

### Date: 14/05/2023

### Summary:

Today marks the beginning of my journey into Domain-Driven Design (DDD). My goal is to understand the core concepts and principles of DDD and be able to effectively implement them in real-world software development projects.

### Goals for this Week:

1. Understand the basic principles and philosophies of Domain-Driven Design.
2. Familiarize myself with the terminologies used in DDD.
3. Understand the importance of the Ubiquitous Language in DDD.

### What is Domain-Driven Design? (Theory)

From what I understand, at its heart, Domain-Driven Design, or DDD, is a way of developing software. Its main focus is on the business or problem that the software is trying to solve. This approach puts the business at the center of everything.

DDD is divided into two main parts: strategic design and tactical design.

Strategic design is about looking at the big picture. It involves figuring out the different parts of the business and how they relate to each other. Here, we find ideas like Bounded Context and Ubiquitous Language. A Bounded Context is like a section of the business, where a certain model and language apply. Ubiquitous Language is the common language that everyone uses within a Bounded Context.

Tactical design, on the other hand, is more about the details. It's about how to implement the model within each Bounded Context, using various patterns.

In short, DDD is all about understanding the business really well and then reflecting that understanding in the software. It's a way to make software that is closely tied to the business, easier to understand, and flexible to changes.

### Understanding the Core Concepts and Principles of DDD (Theory)

#### Ubiquitous Language

Ubiquitous Language is an essential ingredient in the recipe for effective domain modeling. It's a common, shared language that is used by all team members — from developers and testers to business analysts and stakeholders — when discussing the system. This language is based on the domain model and is used within a Bounded Context.

Ubiquitous Language lies in its power to bridge the gap between technical and non-technical members of the team. It aligns everyone's understanding, ensuring that when someone says, for example, "Order," everyone has the same concept in mind — the same attributes, the same behaviors, the same rules.

Creating a Ubiquitous Language is not a one-time task but an ongoing process. It evolves along with the understanding of the domain, and as the model changes over time. The language should be reflected in all aspects of the project, from conversations and documentation to the very code written by the developers. Code and model consistency with the Ubiquitous Language promotes clear communication and a better understanding of the domain.

However, it's important to note that Ubiquitous Language is bounded. It is specific to a Bounded Context. The same term can mean different things in different contexts, and that's perfectly fine. It's the responsibility of the context map to clarify the relationships and interactions between these contexts.

For example in shopping domain, we can have a term "product" which can mean different things to different people. It needs to be defined in the Ubiquitous Language so that everyone has a clear and consistent understanding of what it means. Including the actions that can be performed on it, such as "add to cart" or "remove from cart". For example in code:

```typescript
class Product {
  constructor(
    private readonly id: string,
    private readonly name: string,
    private readonly price: number,
    private readonly description: string,
    private readonly category: string
  ) {}

  public addToCart(): void {
    // ...
  }

  public removeFromCart(): void {
    // ...
  }
}
```

#### Bounded Context

Bounded Context, as I've come to understand, is a core concept in strategic design. It presents a clear delineation within the complex domain model, providing a structured scope and boundary. This boundary encapsulates a specific functionality or business capability within the larger system.

The beauty of Bounded Context is its isolation. Inside a Bounded Context, a particular model applies, with its own Ubiquitous Language - a shared language that is strictly used within that context. This language aids in developing a robust model that is in harmony with the business needs it represents. The encapsulation ensures that the internal consistency and integrity of the model are preserved, free from any outside interference.

However, it's important to remember that these Bounded Contexts don't exist in a vacuum. They often need to interact with other contexts, and the way they do so is defined by the context map. The context map outlines the relationships and interactions between different Bounded Contexts.

What I find truly fascinating is how this concept helps manage complexity. By dividing a large system into smaller Bounded Contexts, we can reduce cognitive load, increase modularity, and promote a better understanding of the system's parts. It also allows for increased parallel development, with different teams working on different contexts, each with its specific model and language.

While the concept of Bounded Contexts is powerful, it also brings challenges. Defining the boundaries is a delicate process, requiring a deep understanding of the domain. Too granular, and we risk excessive fragmentation and communication overhead; too broad, and we might compromise model integrity by trying to accommodate too many concerns within a single context.

#### Tactical vs Strategic Design

We can divide DDD between strategic and tactical design. While the two are integral to DDD, their distinction became clearer as I delved deeper into their nuances.

Strategic design is about the broader, high-level view of the system's design. It's about understanding and mapping the business domain as a whole, considering the system's various subdomains, and defining the boundaries between them. This concept of bounded contexts is central to strategic design. A bounded context is a self-contained section of the domain, complete with its own ubiquitous language - a shared language established around the business domain which is used by all team members.

On the other hand, tactical design is about the nitty-gritty, the details of implementing the model within each bounded context. It's about creating Entities, Value Objects, Aggregates, Repositories, Domain Events, and other patterns that help in defining the model and the relationships within it.

As I see it, strategic design is about 'what' and 'where' - what the different parts of the system are, and where the boundaries between them lie. On the contrary, tactical design is about 'how' - how to implement these parts in code.

A key realization was that both strategic and tactical design go hand in hand. A well-defined strategic design provides the roadmap for a sound tactical design. Without the high-level view, we might fall into the trap of designing the system in a fragmented and incoherent way. Conversely, even the best strategic design is useless without the right tactical implementation.
